
What are the core functionalities needed?
Sending a message to a user.
Receiving messages from a user.
See one's chat history with a user.
Users should receive messages in real-time, as fast as possible without having to refresh the page
support formats text which can contain emojis.
Outgoing messages should be stored and sent out when the application goes online and users should still be allowed to browse messages even if they are offline
We can assume it's a 1:1 messaging service.

NFR:
Using the application on different tabs in the same browser
Using the application on different devices/browser
Application goes offline during usage:
 These messages should be sent out when the application next goes online. However, this should only be done for messages sent recently.

The UI reads data from the database as if it's a client-only application as opposed to traditional applications where the UI directly makes HTTP queries and displays the fetched data.
Different tabs in the same browser access the same client-side database. This ensures consistent data between tabs and helps to solve the UI consistency issue in the "using the application on different tabs in the same browser" scenario

The Data Syncer is a module that is in-charge of syncing the client database with the server.


When the user sends out a message (or any update made by the user in general), we want to reflect the changes immediately. It is poor user experience to wait for the server's confirmation before showing an updated UI.

Hence outgoing chat messages/user actions are first inserted into the database instead and they are marked as pending. Pending messages are also reflected immediately in the UI

Sent:
During database syncing, after the server has received and acknowledged the action, it sends back a response to the application and those messages can be marked as "Sent".

It must be client side rendering as advantages with ssr is not worth it and useful. Moreover the ui is highly reacitve hence csr will fit best.

client: 
conversation list and selected conversation => controller => data sync layer(client side database for handling converstations, messgaes, draft, users, send message req) and message scheduler <=> server

components:
Chat UI: Contains a list of conversations and the currently selected conversation/conversation
Conversations List: Presents a list of conversations (user, last message, last message timestamp).
Selected Conversation: A list of messages in the conversation and a input box to type new messages.

Controller: Controls the flow of data within the application. Fetches data from the database to show in the UI. Writes data to the database.

Data Syncer: Module that contains the database and also manages the outgoing messages. Also receives updates from the server and updates the database accordingly.
Message Scheduler: Monitors the outgoing messages, schedules them for sending and manages their statuses.
Server: Provides HTTP APIs and real-time APIs to fetch conversation and message data and to send new messages.

Sync to server:
Conversation (Conversation between users (only two users for now))
Message (Text message sent by user. status is one of sending, sent, delivered, read, failed)
User (User identity)
ConversationUser (Associates users and conversations to allow a many-to-many relationship. A Conversation only has maximum of two Users for now but with this design it can support as many as required)

sync to client side database only:
draft message (Store half-written, unsent messages)
SendMessageRequest	(This table stores data related to each message that the user has sent but hasn't been acknowledged by the server. status is an enum and can be one of the following)
            (pending, in_flight, fail)

sync to client-state only:
Selected conversation: The currently selected conversation.
Conversation scroll position: Scroll position within each conversation. It's useful to restore the scroll position whenever the user switches between conversations.


Interface:
The following APIs are needed:
Send message
Sync outgoing messages
Server events
Fetch conversations
Fetch conversation messages

1: Send message
Add a row to the Message table with a sending status.
Add a row the SendMessageRequest table with pending status.
Conversation UI reads from the Message table and shows the new message with a "Sending" indicator.
Any DraftMessage rows for the current conversation/conversation are deleted.
At this point, there are no synchronous steps left to be done. The Message Scheduler will be in-charge of syncing the pending messages with the server.

2:Sync outgoing messages
The Message Scheduler will be in-charge of syncing outgoing messages with the server. It will maintain its own task queue and watch the SendMessageRequest table. Because the task queue needs to be in-sync across tabs, it should not be stored in browser memory and can also use another table.

Whenever the table is not empty, it will fetch the first X rows (ordered by id) and try to process them by adding tasks to its own task queue. X is a configurable value. Depending on the row's status column:

pending: Enqueue a task to send the message to the server via the real-time channel. Update the row's status to be in_flight.
in_flight: Check the last_sent_at timestamp. If it has exceeded the timeout threshold, update the row's status to be fail and update the fail_count by 1.
fail: Enqueue a task to retry sending this message sometime in the future. The delay duration depends on the fail_count. With an exponential backoff retry strategy, the delay duration will increase exponentially with the fail_count.


3: Server events
The Data Syncer will receive real-time updates from the server in the form of events. Each event can have a type and a payload field. The shape of the payload depends on the actual event.

message_sent event::
Update the Message's status to be sent.
Clean up this message in the Message Scheduler:
Remove the row corresponding to this message in the SendMessageRequest table. This message has been received by the server and is no longer pending or in_flight.
Remove any tasks in the task queue that are related to this message.
Update UI
Notify the Conversation UI to be updated if that message's conversation is currently shown.
message_delivered event::
Update the Message's status to be delivered.
Update UI
Notify the Conversation UI to be updated if that message's conversation is currently shown.
message_failed event::
Update the row corresponding to this message in the SendMessageRequest table's and change the status to be fail and increment fail_count by 1.
Note that we don't modify the status of the row in the Message table to be fail yet. The message is not deemed to be failed yet until we have retried sending it.
Update UI
Notify the Conversation UI to be updated if that message's conversation is currently shown.
incoming_message event::
Append the new message into the Message table.
Create a new row in the Conversation table if it doesn't exist.
Create a new row for the message's sender into the User table if it doesn't already exist.
Update UI
Notify the Conversations List UI to be updated. Update the UI to surface this conversation to the top. If the Conversations List is sorted by decreasing timestamp of each conversation's latest message, it will be automatically surfaced to the top.
Notify the Conversation UI to be updated if that message's conversation is currently shown.

sync event::
Work in progress. This event is triggered when a client first connects to the server. When clients first connect to the server, they might be lagging behind in terms of the data it contains The goal here is to get each client up-to-date with the latest server state by the server sending down all data that is missing on the client.
Possible ways of indicating the client state to the server:

Client's last update timestamp: The server will gather all the new entities (messages, conversations) created after the timestamp and send to the client for the client to insert into the db.
Each conversation's cursor: A database cursor is a mechanism that enables traversal over records in a database. Similar to the cursor-based pagination APIs, a cursor can be used to indicate the last message in the conversation that the client received, and what messages are after the message.


Optimisation:
IndexedDB is our best choice for client side storage, which is a low-level API for client-side storage of significant amounts of structured data, including files/blobs. Other useful features include database indexes, tables, cursors, transactions, mostly over asynchronous APIs.
Browsers tabs are not aware of IndexedDB data changes in other tabs. To inform the other tabs about changes in the database, use the BroadcastChannel which allows communication between different windows/tabs/frames of the same origin.
Syncing client database with the server::
Fetching new messages: The client needs to tell the server when the last update was (could be the last message received, or the timestamp it last pulled from the server) and the server figures out what messages have not been sent to the client and send them.
Sending out pending messages: Messages sent while the application is offline should be stored in a pending outgoing messages queue and sent out when the application goes online.

Real-time updates:
Real-time messaging means that recipients of the messages receive new messages instantly (or near instantly) without them having to reboot the application/refresh the page or manually trigger a button to fetch new messages. Web sockets can be used here.

Offline Usage: The application should detect if the device is offline and not attempt to send messages if so. The messages should be added to the SendMessageRequests table.
Failures: Failed outgoing messages should be retried using exponential backoff.
Display an error message if after X number of retries the messages weren't successfully delivered.
Batching: Outgoing messages could be batched and sent as a single message if messages are sent in quick succession (within a few seconds)
Disconnection: App should automatically attempt reconnection after a disconnection without the user having to refresh the page.

Performance:
Lazy load components that aren't needed for initial load (e.g. emoji picker, any popovers/modals).
Leverage windowing/virtualization for long list of messages within a conversation.

Accessibility:
Implement basic keyboard shortcuts:
Enter to send a message.
Shift + Enter to add new lines within a message.
Shortcut to focus on the search bar.
Ctrl/Cmd + Up/Down to traverse between conversations.

Offline support::
The application can be built as a Progressive Web Application (PWA) which uses service workers to cache assets (HTML/JS/CSS) so that the application has both the code and data required to be used offline.
Using PWAs also allow for browser notifications which is useful for informing the user that there's a new message even when the tab is not in focus/visible.

User experience::
Maintaining scroll position::
Kept to the bottom of the message list when new messages come in and the scroll position is already at the bottom of the list. This is the default scenario for most situations.
Maintained when the scroll position is not at the bottom such that the currently visible contents are still visible. The application can calculate the current scroll offset, the height of the new elements to be appended, and modify the scroll height to add in the new elements height.
Add a "Scroll to Bottom" button that's visible when the user has scrolled upwards within the conversation messages.


Stale clients:
A plausible approach is to treat it as a fresh load/existing data in the database as non-existent and do a complete sync with the server, only fetching the latest N messages of the latest M conversations.