What is Content Security Policy? 🧐
Content Security Policy (CSP) is a security mechanism implemented by websites to protect against 
cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks, clickjacking, and data injection vulnerabilities.
 It allows website administrators to define a set of policies that dictate which sources of content — 
 such as JavaScript, CSS, images, and plugins — are allowed to be loaded and executed on their web pages.

By specifying a Content Security Policy, website owners can restrict the types of content that browsers will execute, 
mitigating the risk of malicious code injection. CSP works by defining directives that specify 
the allowed sources for different types of content, as well as inline code and eval() usage.
It helps prevent the execution of unauthorized scripts and helps ensure that resources are loaded only from trusted sources.


CSP evaluates and blocks requests for assets
Why is a Content Security Policy Important? 🎯
Mitigating Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)
Protecting User Data
Minimizing Data Injection Vulnerabilities
Protection Against Clickjacking
Compliance and Standards
CSP Header/Directives Examples ✏️
The web server can add an HTTP header called Content-Security-Policy to each response. You can set the following properties in the CSP header.

On the client side, a Meta tag can also be added in a <head> tag.

<meta http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy" content="policy">
default-src — an optional method if no other attributes are defined. 
In most cases, the value of this property self — meaning the browser can only upload resources from the current website.
connect-src — controls the allowed sources for making network connections, 
such as AJAX requests, WebSocket connections, or fetching resources via the Fetch API
script-src — locations from which external scripts can be loaded. 
If your website or application does not use client-side scripting, set the value to none.
script-src-elem — It helps specify trusted sources for inline scripts.
style-src — control the sources from which stylesheets (CSS) can be loaded and applied on a website. It specifies the allowed sources for external stylesheets included via <link> tags or inline styles within HTML elements.
style-src-elem — This directive focuses specifically on inline styles defined within HTML elements using the style attribute. It controls the execution of inline styles within the webpage.
img-src — locations from which images can be retrieved.
font-src — locations from which fonts can be retrieved.
media-src — locations from which rich media like video can be retrieved.
object-src — locations from which plugins can be retrieved.
manifest-src — locations from which application manifests can be retrieved.
frame-ancestors — locations from which another web page can be loaded using a frame, iframe, object, embed, or applet element.
form-action — URLs that can be used as part of an action in a <form> tag, meaning the browser restricts where form results can be sent. The form action does not revert to default-src, so this is a mandatory property if you are using form elements on your site.
base-uri — allows URLs in the src attribute of any tag.
Refer to the complete and up-to-date list of properties from Mozilla.

Which Vulnerabilities Can CSP Prevent? 🙅🏻‍♂️
You can use CSP to enforce the HTTPS protocol to any value defined in *-src attributes, 
by adding the https:// prefix to any URL in your whitelist. 
This way resources will never load over an unencrypted HTTP connection.
In addition, CSP can prevent the following common vulnerabilities:

Unsigned inline CSS statements in <style> tags
Unsigned inline Javascript in <script> tags
Dynamic CSS using CSSStyleSheet.insertRule()
Dynamic Javascript code using eval()
